docs/source/api/index.rst, before:

API Reference
=============

This page gives an overview of all the modules and classes in the Isaac Lab extensions.

isaaclab extension
------------------

The following modules are available in the ``isaaclab`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab

   app
   actuators
   assets
   controllers
   devices
   envs
   managers
   markers
   scene
   sensors
   sim
   terrains
   utils

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   lab/isaaclab.envs.mdp
   lab/isaaclab.envs.ui
   lab/isaaclab.sensors.patterns
   lab/isaaclab.sim.converters
   lab/isaaclab.sim.schemas
   lab/isaaclab.sim.spawners

isaaclab_tasks extension
------------------------

The following modules are available in the ``isaaclab_tasks`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_tasks

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab_tasks

   utils


isaaclab_rl extension
---------------------

The following wrappers are available in the ``isaaclab_rl`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_rl

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab_rl


isaaclab_mimic extension
------------------------

The following modules are available in the ``isaaclab_mimic`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_mimic

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab_mimic

   datagen
   envs

Commit message:

Moves sensors to core-concepts in the documentation (#1989)
# Description

This MR does the following:

* Simplifies the names of sensor overview images by simply putting them
into a directory
* Moves sensors to core-concepts in the documentation
* Fixes script headers in tutorials/demos to be consistent

## Type of change

- Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- This change requires a documentation update

## Checklist

- [x] I have run the [`pre-commit` checks](https://pre-commit.com/) with
`./isaaclab.sh --format`
- [x] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [x] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works
- [ ] I have updated the changelog and the corresponding version in the
extension's `config/extension.toml` file
- [x] I have added my name to the `CONTRIBUTORS.md` or my name already
exists there

docs/source/api/index.rst, after:

API Reference
=============

This page gives an overview of all the modules and classes in the Isaac Lab extensions.

isaaclab extension
------------------

The following modules are available in the ``isaaclab`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab

   app
   actuators
   assets
   controllers
   devices
   envs
   managers
   markers
   scene
   sensors
   sim
   terrains
   utils

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   lab/isaaclab.envs.mdp
   lab/isaaclab.envs.ui
   lab/isaaclab.sensors.patterns
   lab/isaaclab.sim.converters
   lab/isaaclab.sim.schemas
   lab/isaaclab.sim.spawners


isaaclab_rl extension
---------------------

The following wrappers are available in the ``isaaclab_rl`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_rl

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   lab_rl/isaaclab_rl


isaaclab_mimic extension
------------------------

The following modules are available in the ``isaaclab_mimic`` extension:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_mimic

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab_mimic

   datagen
   envs


isaaclab_tasks extension
------------------------

This package ``isaaclab_tasks`` contains the tasks that are available in the Isaac Lab.
For more information, please refer to the :ref:`environments`.

It includes the following modules:

.. currentmodule:: isaaclab_tasks

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: lab_tasks

   utils
