docs/source/setup/installation/binaries_installation.rst, before:

.. _isaaclab-binaries-installation:

Installation using Isaac Sim Binaries
=====================================

Isaac Lab requires Isaac Sim. This tutorial installs Isaac Sim first from binaries, then Isaac Lab from source code.

Installing Isaac Sim
--------------------

Downloading pre-built binaries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow the Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/install_workstation.html>`__
to install the latest Isaac Sim release.

From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be `downloaded <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/download.html#download-isaac-sim-short>`_ directly as a zip file.

To check the minimum system requirements, refer to the documentation
`here <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/requirements.html>`__.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. note::

         We have tested Isaac Lab with Isaac Sim 4.5 release on Ubuntu
         22.04 LTS with NVIDIA driver 535.129.

         From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be downloaded directly as a zip file.
         The below steps assume the Isaac Sim folder was unzipped to the ``${HOME}/isaacsim`` directory.

      On Linux systems, Isaac Sim directory will be named ``${HOME}/isaacsim``.

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. note::

         We have tested Isaac Lab with Isaac Sim 4.5 release on Windows11 with NVIDIA driver 552.86.

         From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be downloaded directly as a zip file.
         The below steps assume the Isaac Sim folder was unzipped to the ``C:/isaacsim`` directory.

      On Windows systems, Isaac Sim directory will be named ``C:/isaacsim``.

Verifying the Isaac Sim installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To avoid the overhead of finding and locating the Isaac Sim installation
directory every time, we recommend exporting the following environment
variables to your terminal for the remaining of the installation instructions:

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Isaac Sim root directory
         export ISAACSIM_PATH="${HOME}/isaacsim"
         # Isaac Sim python executable
         export ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE="${ISAACSIM_PATH}/python.sh"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Isaac Sim root directory
         set ISAACSIM_PATH="C:/isaacsim"
         :: Isaac Sim python executable
         set ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE="%ISAACSIM_PATH:"=%\python.bat"


For more information on common paths, please check the Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/install_faq.html#common-path-locations>`__.


-  Check that the simulator runs as expected:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            # note: you can pass the argument "--help" to see all arguments possible.
            ${ISAACSIM_PATH}/isaac-sim.sh

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            :: note: you can pass the argument "--help" to see all arguments possible.
            %ISAACSIM_PATH%\isaac-sim.bat


-  Check that the simulator runs from a standalone python script:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            # checks that python path is set correctly
            ${ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE} -c "print('Isaac Sim configuration is now complete.')"
            # checks that Isaac Sim can be launched from python
            ${ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE} ${ISAACSIM_PATH}/standalone_examples/api/isaacsim.core.api/add_cubes.py

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            :: checks that python path is set correctly
            %ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE% -c "print('Isaac Sim configuration is now complete.')"
            :: checks that Isaac Sim can be launched from python
            %ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE% %ISAACSIM_PATH%\standalone_examples\api\isaacsim.core.api\add_cubes.py


.. caution::

   If you have been using a previous version of Isaac Sim, you need to run the following command for the *first*
   time after installation to remove all the old user data and cached variables:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux

      	.. code:: bash

      		${ISAACSIM_PATH}/isaac-sim.sh --reset-user

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows

         .. code:: batch

            %ISAACSIM_PATH%\isaac-sim.bat --reset-user


If the simulator does not run or crashes while following the above
instructions, it means that something is incorrectly configured. To
debug and troubleshoot, please check Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/dev-guide/latest/linux-troubleshooting.html>`__
and the
`forums <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/isaac_sim_forums.html>`__.


Installing Isaac Lab
--------------------

Cloning Isaac Lab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

   We recommend making a `fork <https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab/fork>`_ of the Isaac Lab repository to contribute
   to the project but this is not mandatory to use the framework. If you
   make a fork, please replace ``isaac-sim`` with your username
   in the following instructions.

Clone the Isaac Lab repository into your workspace:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: SSH

      .. code:: bash

         git clone git@github.com:isaac-sim/IsaacLab.git

   .. tab-item:: HTTPS

      .. code:: bash

         git clone https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab.git


.. note::
   We provide a helper executable `isaaclab.sh <https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab/blob/main/isaaclab.sh>`_ that provides
   utilities to manage extensions:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: text

            ./isaaclab.sh --help

            usage: isaaclab.sh [-h] [-i] [-f] [-p] [-s] [-t] [-o] [-v] [-d] [-c] -- Utility to manage Isaac Lab.

            optional arguments:
               -h, --help           Display the help content.
               -i, --install [LIB]  Install the extensions inside Isaac Lab and learning frameworks (rl-games, rsl-rl, sb3, skrl) as extra dependencies. Default is 'all'.
               -f, --format         Run pre-commit to format the code and check lints.
               -p, --python         Run the python executable provided by Isaac Sim or virtual environment (if active).
               -s, --sim            Run the simulator executable (isaac-sim.sh) provided by Isaac Sim.
               -t, --test           Run all python unittest tests.
               -o, --docker         Run the docker container helper script (docker/container.sh).
               -v, --vscode         Generate the VSCode settings file from template.
               -d, --docs           Build the documentation from source using sphinx.
               -c, --conda [NAME]   Create the conda environment for Isaac Lab. Default name is 'env_isaaclab'.

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: text

            isaaclab.bat --help

            usage: isaaclab.bat [-h] [-i] [-f] [-p] [-s] [-v] [-d] [-c] -- Utility to manage Isaac Lab.

            optional arguments:
               -h, --help           Display the help content.
               -i, --install [LIB]  Install the extensions inside Isaac Lab and learning frameworks (rl-games, rsl-rl, sb3, skrl) as extra dependencies. Default is 'all'.
               -f, --format         Run pre-commit to format the code and check lints.
               -p, --python         Run the python executable provided by Isaac Sim or virtual environment (if active).
               -s, --sim            Run the simulator executable (isaac-sim.bat) provided by Isaac Sim.
               -t, --test           Run all python unittest tests.
               -v, --vscode         Generate the VSCode settings file from template.
               -d, --docs           Build the documentation from source using sphinx.
               -c, --conda [NAME]   Create the conda environment for Isaac Lab. Default name is 'env_isaaclab'.


Creating the Isaac Sim Symbolic Link
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Set up a symbolic link between the installed Isaac Sim root folder
and ``_isaac_sim`` in the Isaac Lab directory. This makes it convenient
to index the python modules and look for extensions shipped with Isaac Sim.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # enter the cloned repository
         cd IsaacLab
         # create a symbolic link
         ln -s path_to_isaac_sim _isaac_sim
         # For example: ln -s ${HOME}/isaacsim _isaac_sim

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: enter the cloned repository
         cd IsaacLab
         :: create a symbolic link - requires launching Command Prompt with Administrator access
         mklink /D _isaac_sim path_to_isaac_sim
         :: For example: mklink /D _isaac_sim C:/isaacsim


Setting up the conda environment (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. attention::
   This step is optional. If you are using the bundled python with Isaac Sim, you can skip this step.

.. note::

   If you use Conda, we recommend using `Miniconda <https://docs.anaconda.com/miniconda/miniconda-other-installer-links/>`_.

The executable ``isaaclab.sh`` automatically fetches the python bundled with Isaac
Sim, using ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` command (unless inside a virtual environment). This executable
behaves like a python executable, and can be used to run any python script or
module with the simulator. For more information, please refer to the
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/python_scripting/manual_standalone_python.html>`__.

To install ``conda``, please follow the instructions `here <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html>`__.
You can create the Isaac Lab environment using the following commands.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Option 1: Default name for conda environment is 'env_isaaclab'
         ./isaaclab.sh --conda  # or "./isaaclab.sh -c"
         # Option 2: Custom name for conda environment
         ./isaaclab.sh --conda my_env  # or "./isaaclab.sh -c my_env"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Option 1: Default name for conda environment is 'env_isaaclab'
         isaaclab.bat --conda  :: or "isaaclab.bat -c"
         :: Option 2: Custom name for conda environment
         isaaclab.bat --conda my_env  :: or "isaaclab.bat -c my_env"


Once created, be sure to activate the environment before proceeding!

.. code:: bash

   conda activate env_isaaclab  # or "conda activate my_env"

Once you are in the virtual environment, you do not need to use ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` / ``isaaclab.bat -p``
to run python scripts. You can use the default python executable in your environment
by running ``python`` or ``python3``. However, for the rest of the documentation,
we will assume that you are using ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` / ``isaaclab.bat -p`` to run python scripts. This command
is equivalent to running ``python`` or ``python3`` in your virtual environment.


Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Install dependencies using ``apt`` (on Linux only):

   .. code:: bash

      # these dependency are needed by robomimic which is not available on Windows
      sudo apt install cmake build-essential

- Run the install command that iterates over all the extensions in ``source`` directory and installs them
  using pip (with ``--editable`` flag):

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh --install # or "./isaaclab.sh -i"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat --install :: or "isaaclab.bat -i"

.. note::

   By default, the above will install all the learning frameworks. If you want to install only a specific framework, you can
   pass the name of the framework as an argument. For example, to install only the ``rl_games`` framework, you can run

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            ./isaaclab.sh --install rl_games  # or "./isaaclab.sh -i rl_games"

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            isaaclab.bat --install rl_games :: or "isaaclab.bat -i rl_games"

   The valid options are ``rl_games``, ``rsl_rl``, ``sb3``, ``skrl``, ``robomimic``, ``none``.

.. attention::

   For 50 series GPUs, please use the latest PyTorch nightly build instead of PyTorch 2.5.1, which comes with Isaac Sim:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            ./isaaclab.sh -p -m pip install --upgrade --pre torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu128

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            isaaclab.bat -p -m pip install --upgrade --pre torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu128

Verifying the Isaac Lab installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To verify that the installation was successful, run the following command from the
top of the repository:

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Option 1: Using the isaaclab.sh executable
         # note: this works for both the bundled python and the virtual environment
         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/tutorials/00_sim/create_empty.py

         # Option 2: Using python in your virtual environment
         python scripts/tutorials/00_sim/create_empty.py

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Option 1: Using the isaaclab.bat executable
         :: note: this works for both the bundled python and the virtual environment
         isaaclab.bat -p scripts\tutorials\00_sim\create_empty.py

         :: Option 2: Using python in your virtual environment
         python scripts\tutorials\00_sim\create_empty.py


The above command should launch the simulator and display a window with a black
viewport. You can exit the script by pressing ``Ctrl+C`` on your terminal.
On Windows machines, please terminate the process from Command Prompt using
``Ctrl+Break`` or ``Ctrl+fn+B``.

.. figure:: ../../_static/setup/verify_install.jpg
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 100%
    :alt: Simulator with a black window.


If you see this, then the installation was successful! |:tada:|

Train a robot!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can now use Isaac Lab to train a robot through Reinforcement Learning! The quickest way to use Isaac Lab is through the predefined workflows using one of our **Batteries-included** robot tasks. Execute the following command to quickly train an ant to walk!
We recommend adding ``--headless`` for faster training.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Ant-v0 --headless

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Ant-v0 --headless

... Or a robot dog!

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Velocity-Rough-Anymal-C-v0 --headless

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Velocity-Rough-Anymal-C-v0 --headless

Isaac Lab provides the tools you'll need to create your own **Tasks** and **Workflows** for whatever your project needs may be. Take a look at our :ref:`how-to` guides like `Adding your own learning Library <source/how-to/add_own_library>`_ or `Wrapping Environments <source/how-to/wrap_rl_env>`_ for details.

.. figure:: ../../_static/setup/isaac_ants_example.jpg
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 100%
    :alt: Idle hands...

Commit message:

Adds new external project / internal task template generator (#2039)
# Description

This PR adds the implementation to generate Isaac Lab's external project
or internal task.

Just run `./isaaclab.sh --new` or `isaaclab.bat --new` (or `-n`) and let
yourself go!

## Type of change

- New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- This change requires a documentation update

## Checklist

- [x] I have run the [`pre-commit` checks](https://pre-commit.com/) with
`./isaaclab.sh --format`
- [ ] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [x] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works
- [ ] I have updated the changelog and the corresponding version in the
extension's `config/extension.toml` file
- [x] I have added my name to the `CONTRIBUTORS.md` or my name already
exists there

<!--
As you go through the checklist above, you can mark something as done by
putting an x character in it

For example,
- [x] I have done this task
- [ ] I have not done this task
-->

---------

Signed-off-by: Toni-SM <toni.semu@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Kelly Guo <kellyguo123@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kelly Guo <kellyg@nvidia.com>

docs/source/setup/installation/binaries_installation.rst, after:

.. _isaaclab-binaries-installation:

Installation using Isaac Sim Binaries
=====================================

Isaac Lab requires Isaac Sim. This tutorial installs Isaac Sim first from binaries, then Isaac Lab from source code.

Installing Isaac Sim
--------------------

Downloading pre-built binaries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow the Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/install_workstation.html>`__
to install the latest Isaac Sim release.

From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be `downloaded <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/download.html#download-isaac-sim-short>`_ directly as a zip file.

To check the minimum system requirements, refer to the documentation
`here <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/requirements.html>`__.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. note::

         We have tested Isaac Lab with Isaac Sim 4.5 release on Ubuntu
         22.04 LTS with NVIDIA driver 535.129.

         From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be downloaded directly as a zip file.
         The below steps assume the Isaac Sim folder was unzipped to the ``${HOME}/isaacsim`` directory.

      On Linux systems, Isaac Sim directory will be named ``${HOME}/isaacsim``.

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. note::

         We have tested Isaac Lab with Isaac Sim 4.5 release on Windows11 with NVIDIA driver 552.86.

         From Isaac Sim 4.5 release, Isaac Sim binaries can be downloaded directly as a zip file.
         The below steps assume the Isaac Sim folder was unzipped to the ``C:/isaacsim`` directory.

      On Windows systems, Isaac Sim directory will be named ``C:/isaacsim``.

Verifying the Isaac Sim installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To avoid the overhead of finding and locating the Isaac Sim installation
directory every time, we recommend exporting the following environment
variables to your terminal for the remaining of the installation instructions:

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Isaac Sim root directory
         export ISAACSIM_PATH="${HOME}/isaacsim"
         # Isaac Sim python executable
         export ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE="${ISAACSIM_PATH}/python.sh"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Isaac Sim root directory
         set ISAACSIM_PATH="C:/isaacsim"
         :: Isaac Sim python executable
         set ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE="%ISAACSIM_PATH:"=%\python.bat"


For more information on common paths, please check the Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/installation/install_faq.html#common-path-locations>`__.


-  Check that the simulator runs as expected:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            # note: you can pass the argument "--help" to see all arguments possible.
            ${ISAACSIM_PATH}/isaac-sim.sh

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            :: note: you can pass the argument "--help" to see all arguments possible.
            %ISAACSIM_PATH%\isaac-sim.bat


-  Check that the simulator runs from a standalone python script:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            # checks that python path is set correctly
            ${ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE} -c "print('Isaac Sim configuration is now complete.')"
            # checks that Isaac Sim can be launched from python
            ${ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE} ${ISAACSIM_PATH}/standalone_examples/api/isaacsim.core.api/add_cubes.py

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            :: checks that python path is set correctly
            %ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE% -c "print('Isaac Sim configuration is now complete.')"
            :: checks that Isaac Sim can be launched from python
            %ISAACSIM_PYTHON_EXE% %ISAACSIM_PATH%\standalone_examples\api\isaacsim.core.api\add_cubes.py


.. caution::

   If you have been using a previous version of Isaac Sim, you need to run the following command for the *first*
   time after installation to remove all the old user data and cached variables:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux

      	.. code:: bash

      		${ISAACSIM_PATH}/isaac-sim.sh --reset-user

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows

         .. code:: batch

            %ISAACSIM_PATH%\isaac-sim.bat --reset-user


If the simulator does not run or crashes while following the above
instructions, it means that something is incorrectly configured. To
debug and troubleshoot, please check Isaac Sim
`documentation <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/dev-guide/latest/linux-troubleshooting.html>`__
and the
`forums <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/isaac_sim_forums.html>`__.


Installing Isaac Lab
--------------------

Cloning Isaac Lab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

   We recommend making a `fork <https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab/fork>`_ of the Isaac Lab repository to contribute
   to the project but this is not mandatory to use the framework. If you
   make a fork, please replace ``isaac-sim`` with your username
   in the following instructions.

Clone the Isaac Lab repository into your workspace:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: SSH

      .. code:: bash

         git clone git@github.com:isaac-sim/IsaacLab.git

   .. tab-item:: HTTPS

      .. code:: bash

         git clone https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab.git


.. note::
   We provide a helper executable `isaaclab.sh <https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacLab/blob/main/isaaclab.sh>`_ that provides
   utilities to manage extensions:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: text

            ./isaaclab.sh --help

            usage: isaaclab.sh [-h] [-i] [-f] [-p] [-s] [-t] [-o] [-v] [-d] [-n] [-c] -- Utility to manage Isaac Lab.

            optional arguments:
               -h, --help           Display the help content.
               -i, --install [LIB]  Install the extensions inside Isaac Lab and learning frameworks (rl-games, rsl-rl, sb3, skrl) as extra dependencies. Default is 'all'.
               -f, --format         Run pre-commit to format the code and check lints.
               -p, --python         Run the python executable provided by Isaac Sim or virtual environment (if active).
               -s, --sim            Run the simulator executable (isaac-sim.sh) provided by Isaac Sim.
               -t, --test           Run all python unittest tests.
               -o, --docker         Run the docker container helper script (docker/container.sh).
               -v, --vscode         Generate the VSCode settings file from template.
               -d, --docs           Build the documentation from source using sphinx.
               -n, --new            Create a new external project or internal task from template.
               -c, --conda [NAME]   Create the conda environment for Isaac Lab. Default name is 'env_isaaclab'.

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: text

            isaaclab.bat --help

            usage: isaaclab.bat [-h] [-i] [-f] [-p] [-s] [-v] [-d] [-n] [-c] -- Utility to manage Isaac Lab.

            optional arguments:
               -h, --help           Display the help content.
               -i, --install [LIB]  Install the extensions inside Isaac Lab and learning frameworks (rl-games, rsl-rl, sb3, skrl) as extra dependencies. Default is 'all'.
               -f, --format         Run pre-commit to format the code and check lints.
               -p, --python         Run the python executable provided by Isaac Sim or virtual environment (if active).
               -s, --sim            Run the simulator executable (isaac-sim.bat) provided by Isaac Sim.
               -t, --test           Run all python unittest tests.
               -v, --vscode         Generate the VSCode settings file from template.
               -d, --docs           Build the documentation from source using sphinx.
               -n, --new            Create a new external project or internal task from template.
               -c, --conda [NAME]   Create the conda environment for Isaac Lab. Default name is 'env_isaaclab'.


Creating the Isaac Sim Symbolic Link
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Set up a symbolic link between the installed Isaac Sim root folder
and ``_isaac_sim`` in the Isaac Lab directory. This makes it convenient
to index the python modules and look for extensions shipped with Isaac Sim.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # enter the cloned repository
         cd IsaacLab
         # create a symbolic link
         ln -s path_to_isaac_sim _isaac_sim
         # For example: ln -s ${HOME}/isaacsim _isaac_sim

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: enter the cloned repository
         cd IsaacLab
         :: create a symbolic link - requires launching Command Prompt with Administrator access
         mklink /D _isaac_sim path_to_isaac_sim
         :: For example: mklink /D _isaac_sim C:/isaacsim


Setting up the conda environment (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. attention::
   This step is optional. If you are using the bundled python with Isaac Sim, you can skip this step.

.. note::

   If you use Conda, we recommend using `Miniconda <https://docs.anaconda.com/miniconda/miniconda-other-installer-links/>`_.

The executable ``isaaclab.sh`` automatically fetches the python bundled with Isaac
Sim, using ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` command (unless inside a virtual environment). This executable
behaves like a python executable, and can be used to run any python script or
module with the simulator. For more information, please refer to the
`documentation <https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/python_scripting/manual_standalone_python.html>`__.

To install ``conda``, please follow the instructions `here <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html>`__.
You can create the Isaac Lab environment using the following commands.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Option 1: Default name for conda environment is 'env_isaaclab'
         ./isaaclab.sh --conda  # or "./isaaclab.sh -c"
         # Option 2: Custom name for conda environment
         ./isaaclab.sh --conda my_env  # or "./isaaclab.sh -c my_env"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Option 1: Default name for conda environment is 'env_isaaclab'
         isaaclab.bat --conda  :: or "isaaclab.bat -c"
         :: Option 2: Custom name for conda environment
         isaaclab.bat --conda my_env  :: or "isaaclab.bat -c my_env"


Once created, be sure to activate the environment before proceeding!

.. code:: bash

   conda activate env_isaaclab  # or "conda activate my_env"

Once you are in the virtual environment, you do not need to use ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` / ``isaaclab.bat -p``
to run python scripts. You can use the default python executable in your environment
by running ``python`` or ``python3``. However, for the rest of the documentation,
we will assume that you are using ``./isaaclab.sh -p`` / ``isaaclab.bat -p`` to run python scripts. This command
is equivalent to running ``python`` or ``python3`` in your virtual environment.


Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Install dependencies using ``apt`` (on Linux only):

   .. code:: bash

      # these dependency are needed by robomimic which is not available on Windows
      sudo apt install cmake build-essential

- Run the install command that iterates over all the extensions in ``source`` directory and installs them
  using pip (with ``--editable`` flag):

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh --install # or "./isaaclab.sh -i"

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat --install :: or "isaaclab.bat -i"

.. note::

   By default, the above will install all the learning frameworks. If you want to install only a specific framework, you can
   pass the name of the framework as an argument. For example, to install only the ``rl_games`` framework, you can run

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            ./isaaclab.sh --install rl_games  # or "./isaaclab.sh -i rl_games"

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            isaaclab.bat --install rl_games :: or "isaaclab.bat -i rl_games"

   The valid options are ``rl_games``, ``rsl_rl``, ``sb3``, ``skrl``, ``robomimic``, ``none``.

.. attention::

   For 50 series GPUs, please use the latest PyTorch nightly build instead of PyTorch 2.5.1, which comes with Isaac Sim:

   .. tab-set::
      :sync-group: os

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
         :sync: linux

         .. code:: bash

            ./isaaclab.sh -p -m pip install --upgrade --pre torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu128

      .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
         :sync: windows

         .. code:: batch

            isaaclab.bat -p -m pip install --upgrade --pre torch --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cu128

Verifying the Isaac Lab installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To verify that the installation was successful, run the following command from the
top of the repository:

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         # Option 1: Using the isaaclab.sh executable
         # note: this works for both the bundled python and the virtual environment
         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/tutorials/00_sim/create_empty.py

         # Option 2: Using python in your virtual environment
         python scripts/tutorials/00_sim/create_empty.py

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         :: Option 1: Using the isaaclab.bat executable
         :: note: this works for both the bundled python and the virtual environment
         isaaclab.bat -p scripts\tutorials\00_sim\create_empty.py

         :: Option 2: Using python in your virtual environment
         python scripts\tutorials\00_sim\create_empty.py


The above command should launch the simulator and display a window with a black
viewport. You can exit the script by pressing ``Ctrl+C`` on your terminal.
On Windows machines, please terminate the process from Command Prompt using
``Ctrl+Break`` or ``Ctrl+fn+B``.

.. figure:: ../../_static/setup/verify_install.jpg
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 100%
    :alt: Simulator with a black window.


If you see this, then the installation was successful! |:tada:|

Train a robot!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can now use Isaac Lab to train a robot through Reinforcement Learning! The quickest way to use Isaac Lab is through the predefined workflows using one of our **Batteries-included** robot tasks. Execute the following command to quickly train an ant to walk!
We recommend adding ``--headless`` for faster training.

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Ant-v0 --headless

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Ant-v0 --headless

... Or a robot dog!

.. tab-set::
   :sync-group: os

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-linux` Linux
      :sync: linux

      .. code:: bash

         ./isaaclab.sh -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Velocity-Rough-Anymal-C-v0 --headless

   .. tab-item:: :icon:`fa-brands fa-windows` Windows
      :sync: windows

      .. code:: batch

         isaaclab.bat -p scripts/reinforcement_learning/rsl_rl/train.py --task=Isaac-Velocity-Rough-Anymal-C-v0 --headless

Isaac Lab provides the tools you'll need to create your own **Tasks** and **Workflows** for whatever your project needs may be. Take a look at our :ref:`how-to` guides like `Adding your own learning Library <source/how-to/add_own_library>`_ or `Wrapping Environments <source/how-to/wrap_rl_env>`_ for details.

.. figure:: ../../_static/setup/isaac_ants_example.jpg
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 100%
    :alt: Idle hands...
